---
published: true
---

What is Maturity?

To think that you know is to be immature. To function from knowledge, from conclusion, is to be immature. To function from no-knowledge, from no conclusion, from no past, is maturity.

   Maturity is the deep trust in your consciousness and immaturity is the distrust in your consciousness. You trust your knowledge, it's a very poor substitute.
When a certain situation arises, you can function in two way. You can function through all your accumulated past, through your conclusions, experience, this is stale and dead, then whatsoever you do your response is not going to be a response it's going to be a reaction. To be reactionary is to be immature. 
	Or if you can function right now, here in this moment, through your consciousness, through your being aware, putting aside all that you know -- that is functioning through No-Knowledge, this is functioning through innocence and this is maturity.
	The mind is immature when it is not ready to learn. The ego feels very satisfied, if it need not learn anything from anybody, the ego feels very enhanced if it feels that it already knows. But the problem is that life goes on changing, it is never the same, is goes on flowing, it is a flux.But, your knowledge is always the same, it is not evolving with life.
	Paradox: Every child who is innocent is mature.
Maturity has nothing to do with age, it has nothing to do with experience, maturity has something to do with responsiveness, freshness, virginity, innocence. 

Socrates said in his old age, "Now I know nothing." That was maturity. Life is so vast how can this tiny mind know, at the most glimpses are enough, but even they are too much. Existence is so tremendously vast and infinite, how can this tiny drop of consciousness know it? It is enough that even if a few glimpses come, a few doors open. But those moments cannot be turned into knowledge.

   So the first thing is that you should be capable of learning and your learning capacity should never be burdened by knowledge, never be covered by dust. The mirror of learning should remain clean and fresh so it can go on reflecting.  The mind can function in two ways. It can function like a camera: once exposed, finished -- the film immediately becomes knowledgeable and it loses its learning capacity. Exposed once and it already knows -- now it is useless; now it is not capable of learning more. If you expose it again and again it will become more confused. 

   That's why people who know too much are always afraid of learning... because they will become confused. They are already exposed films. Then there is another type of learning -- learning like a mirror. Expose the mirror for a thousand and one times, it makes no difference -- if you come in front of the mirror, you are reflected: if you go, the reflection goes. The mirror never accumulates.

   The film in the camera immediately accumulates -- it catches hold, clings, but the mirror simply mirrors: you come in front, you are in it; you go, you are gone.
This is the way to remain mature. Every child is born mature and almost all people die immature. This will look very paradoxical but this is so. Remain innocent and you will remain mature.
  
   Maturity is always spontaneous. It does not need a plan, it makes no rehearsals. The moment you prepare for something you're already saying that it is false. The real thing need not be prepared in life, rehearsals are needed in drama. A drama is a false thing. If you're thirsty, when you go to the river, you won't forget that you're thirsty. In fact, when you reach the river thirst will burn more intensely.
   When you prepare for something, it's a mind thing. These things don't come from heart, they are not related to you, they have no roots in you.
