---
published: true
---

Things are not the target. You, you're innermost being is the target -- not a beautiful house, but a beautiful you; not much money but a rich you;  not many things but an open being available to millions of things.

When I say you're immature, I mean you're too concerned with things and you have not yet learned that life consists of consciousness -- of beings, not of things. Things are to be used, they are needed, but you don't start living by them. Man cannot live by bread alone -- once living by bread alone, things alone you're already dead. 

Maturity is always spontaneous. It does not need a plan, it makes no rehearsals. The moment you prepare for something you're already saying that it is false. The real thing need not be prepared in life, rehearsals are needed in drama. A drama is a false thing. If you're thirsty, when you go to the river, you won't forget that you're thirsty. In fact, when you reach the river thirst will burn more intensely.

When you prepare for something, it's a mind thing. These things don't come from heart, they are not related to you, they have no roots in you.


The most basic thing: When I say that you have an immature mind, basically I mean that you have a mind. Mind as such is immature; only no-mind is mature.

Maturity has nothing to do with mind because mind means all that you know; mind means your experiences, mind means your past, your rehearsals, your preparations. Mind is not something in particular, it's the accumulation of whole junk.


Hopeless comes from too much hope. If you don't hope then hopelessness disappears. 
     Don't hope for anything. There is no need because all that you can hope is already given. What more can you hope for? 
       You are here, everything is here -- just being is all. But you don't appreciate, you are asking for some dead mouse, some ego trip, some power trip, some success in eyes of the world. Those are not going to be fulfilled, even Alexanders have failed. Even Alexander dies a poor man, a beggar, because everything that you accumulate is snatched back from you, you go empty-handed. Empty-handed you come, empty-handed you go. 
        So why bother about success, riches, power -- material or spiritual? Just be ... and being is the greatest miracle. Turn within yourself -- what Buddha calls PARABVRUTTI. Turn yourself, a complete turn, a total turn and suddenly you are so full of joy, you don't need anything. In fact, you have so much that you would like to shower it on others. 
      There is no need for any hope and there is no need to feel hopeless. Live here now. Life is tremendously blissful, it's showering here and you are looking somewhere else. It is just in front of your eyes, but your eyes have moved far away, they look at the horizon. It is within you, but you are not there.


If you want to be loved -- love! Because whatsoever you give is returned back. If you want to be loved forget about wanting to be loved and in a thousand ways love will come to you. Life reflects, life echoes whatsoever you throw at life.
